this video is brought to you by hunter
killer
if you're a fan of mysteries and want to
test your own puzzle solving skills then
hunter killer is the product for you
hunter killer is one of the fastest
growing subscription boxes that
challenges players to decipher codes
examine clues and solve puzzles in order
to crack the code and catch the killer
it's like your own arg or true crime
mystery delivered to you for you and
brilliantly the game can be played by
yourself if you're a solo detective or
with a group of friends for a game night
i have to admit i don't think i've ever
seen a product like this
i love reading and learning about
mysteries but actually having the chance
to participate in one is pretty cool
each box starts at 25
but by using my discount code jorge you
can get 20 off your first box
plus the portion of proceeds goes to the
cold case foundation an organization
involved in real life cases
again click the link in the description
below and use my code jorge to get
started on solving your first mystery
thanks again to hunterkiller for
sponsoring this video
[Music]
in early october of 2019 a young ceo by
the name of aaron valenti was on a
business trip from utah to california
33 year old was to participate in a
three-day workshop and tech conference
with other businessmen and women
her company tinker ventures had
previously endorsed brain machine
interface technology that dealt with
machine learning and neuroscience
after frantically calling your parents
exclaiming it's all a game it's a
thought experiment we're in the matrix
valencia misses her flight home and is
found dead a few days later leaving
behind a very strange mystery
what happened to aaron valenti
[Music]
aaron valencia grew up in fairpoint new
york and was described as being smart
energetic and full of crazy ideas
she was a graduate in business
administration from georgetown
university and attended classes in
chinese language culture and business
practices
aaron was also an advocate against human
trafficking and a volunteer for not for
sale a non-profit organization that
fights against human trafficking and
modern day slavery
her husband harrison weinstein is a
psychologist who insisted that his wife
had no history of mental illness
hospitalization substance abuse or
arrests
she was completely normal
the two eventually moved to salt lake
city utah
where aaron started up tinker ventures
a web development company that now
employs over 120 people
the business notably recruited a remote
staff of engineers from pakistan
and was very profitable according to
close friends of aaron
in 2019 aaron planned a business trip to
orange county for a tech conference
and then to silicon valley to meet with
friends
her last post on facebook was on
september 25th and stated
heading to san francisco and los angeles
soon who's around dm me
on the week of october 1st 2018
erin flew to orange county california
for a professional development workshop
her mother agnes valenti recalled that
erin sounded very excited about her trip
during their phone call
that she couldn't wait to get home and
start something new
few days later she flew to silicon
valley to visit old friends and former
colleagues
finally on october 7th
erin made a series of strange phone
calls to her husband harrison and her
mother they described the way she spoke
as being out of character
her words were reportedly fast and
erratic
and that what she was saying wasn't
making much sense
notably erin told her mother it's all a
game it's a thought experiment
we're in the matrix
aaron also stated that she was going to
miss her flight and that the vehicle she
was driving was low on gas
her husband and mother took turns
talking to her on the phone until
midnight
after that
their calls went straight to voicemail
they would not hear from her ever again
[Music]
later that night aaron missed her flight
from the palo alto airport to utah
she was reportedly last seen at almaden
expressway and camden avenue in san jose
california wearing a white t-shirt and
ripped up blue jeans
her case was sent to the san jose police
department
and five days later she was found dead
in the back seat of a rental vehicle in
an almaden neighborhood
there were no signs of physical assaults
and no drugs in her system either
[Music]
shortly after their phone call
valencia's family went to the police in
search for aaron
the family gave details about her rental
vehicle including the make model and
license plate
the police actually managed to speak to
her through the phone that night
but also found her communications to be
bizarre
weinstein contacted verizon wireless and
found out that the last place aaron's
cell phone had signal in was on menlo
drive north of the almaden expressway
her phone also pinged a few times up
north
before shutting off
officers investigated both areas
as well as nearby hospitals for several
hours
but found nothing
interestingly her rental vehicle did not
have any sort of tracking device on it
the family also attempted to locate her
phone using apps such as find my but
were unsuccessful
despite the fact that aaron was clearly
in danger the police supposedly did not
report an official missing person's case
until thursday october 10 2019
by that point
the family hadn't heard from aaron for
three days
this is due to the police believing that
her disappearance was not a top priority
simply because she was an adult and
could have just decided to take a few
days off
sounds crazy but people have voluntarily
disappeared on their own accord
because of an abusive partner home life
or such
as noted by spokeswoman sergeant melody
gray
if you're over 18 you have the rights
however
given that erin was the ceo of a fairly
large web development company that
worked on contract not subscriptions and
that she was even set to receive an
award for entrepreneurial excellence a
mere two days later
it's highly unlikely that she would
choose to leave
still when the police eventually did
file her disappearance
they described her as being voluntarily
missing
and didn't actively search for her
disappointed with the police's lack of
effort aaron's family created a facebook
page called help find aaron valente
the page garnered the attention of
locals from the bay area who volunteered
in the search
some families drove around in pursuit of
aaron while others incorporated the use
of drones
despite all their efforts aaron remained
missing
that is until a few days later
when one of the volunteers from facebook
located erin's gray suv parked at a
residential street in a quiet san jose
neighborhood around half a mile away
from her last known location
after looking inside her body was found
in the back seats of the vehicle
the coroner's office hadn't yet
officially identified the body
but valenti's family was able to confirm
that it was her
an investigation by the san jose police
department found no evidence of foul
play and blood tests determined that
there were no drugs or substances in her
system
at the time officials were not able to
determine aaron's exact time of death
nor how long she was in her car before
being found
we now know that her vehicle was parked
on the street for five days
following an extensive investigation
this means that shortly after aaron's
phone call with her family she missed
her flight home parked at a nearby
neighborhood jumped in the back seat of
a rental vehicle died somehow and
remained completely unnoticed for
several days
residents of the quiet neighborhood
struggled to rationalize what could have
happened
it's really strange bizarre foggy to me
because this kind of stuff just doesn't
usually go down in amaden
what else seems weird is that none of us
noticed
and we're pretty tight neighborhood so
i'm pretty tripped out
[Music]
aaron's father joseph valencia firmly
believes that the san jose police
department completely mishandled her
daughter's case and wished that they had
acted more aggressively
it's difficult to know exactly what
happened the week aaron went missing
but most sources say that the police did
not do as much as they should have
[Music]
with such a strange circumstance and so
many unanswered questions it leaves the
case open for conspiracy theories
some online salutes have accused her
three-day workshop of being an lgat
or large group awareness training
the workshop aaron participated in was
called create powerful hosted by
onsocore
and was intended to help entrepreneurs
with personal and professional growth
for their businesses
some have compared this to an lgat
which are also self-help seminars that
incorporate psychological and somewhat
cult-like practices
both cost a large amount of money
both take place over several days with a
group of people involved
and both promise to help attendees
achieve better success with their
business
many have expressed fear that the
techniques used in lgat's can be very
harmful but there's little scientific
evidence to support this claim
others have attempted to tie this to the
overstock scandal that happened a few
months prior
in august of 2019
then ceo of overstock patrick barn
resigned after issuing a statement where
he claimed to be involved in political
espionage
and aaron did used to work at overstock
and she did have a meet up with old
colleagues
if there is a connection there it's
honestly outside the realm of this video
and seems to be a whole other conspiracy
on its own
finally an eco-terrorist group known as
the individual is tending towards the
wild or simply the its
claims to be responsible for the death
of aaron
as well as another tech ceo tushar atrei
in tushar's case he was kidnapped from
his home in santa cruz on october 1st
2019 and was found dead the next day
however this claim has not been verified
and there's no evidence to suggest the
group's involvements
one of the oddest aspects of this case
is of course
her last comments before her
disappearance
she exclaimed to her mother it's all a
game it's a thought experiment
we're in the matrix
even though it's quite a bizarre thing
for someone to say right before their
suspicious death
it might actually be
explainable but more on that in a moment
i think it's safe to say that most
people watching this video know what the
matrix is
but just in case you don't
the matrix is this philosophical idea
that the universe and everything that's
made up of is a simulation
this is most popularly depicted in the
1999 movie of the same name
where our main protagonist neo finds out
that humanity has been enslaved by the
machines an advanced race of artificial
intelligence
and the life that he was experiencing
was just information being fed to his
brain
this isn't real
what is real
how do you define real
if you're talking about what you can
feel what you can smell that you can
taste and see then real is simply
electrical signals interpreted by your
brain
now i don't think the people who believe
in the idea of the matrix also believe
that machines and robots will one day
overthrow humanity but instead they
believe that at some points
human consciousness something that we
don't currently fully understand became
understood
to the point of it being replicable
and so like humans usually do we went
for it
and succeeded
given how much our technology has
evolved in the past few decades and how
more integrated ai technology has been
in our everyday lives
i wouldn't say that creating a
simulation of our world in the next
couple hundred years or so isn't
entirely unlikely
and if that's the case then who's to say
we're not already in a simulation
if you assume any rate of improvement at
all
um then the games will become
indistinguishable from reality just
instinctual
it would
seem to follow that
the odds that were in base reality is
one in billions
of course this is all just a theory
based on a number of assumptions that
makes for a fun philosophical
conversation
but such technology that can read our
movements and replicate them in a
simulation is already being developed
and as previously stated aaron's company
tinker ventures did endorse the advent
of brain machine interface technology
particularly from the company control
labs
founded by thomas reardon of microsoft
fame
the company sought to create a future in
which machines are natural extensions of
thoughts and movements
according to medium
control labs will connect your nervous
system to your technology and allow your
brain to send commands through the
muscles in your arm
it's so sensitive you don't even have to
move your arm or hand to make it work
the controller just gets the idea
the future of brain machine interfaces
is non-invasive
instead of surgical implants control
labs uses state-of-the-art detection and
machine learning to read your neurons
from outside the body
the first step will be technology
precisely picking up the signals from
inside your body to control devices
outside of it with little more than
natural gestures
the next step and we're already closer
than most people realize
will be reading the intention directly
from your brain
this combined with aaron's last words to
her family and her mysterious death have
led some to believe that she may have
stumbled upon some grand conspiracy
involving our world being a simulation
unfortunately this was all we had to
work with for the next couple of months
as no new details about aaron's death
would be discovered
leaving her case as a mystery
that is until february of 2020
in february of 2020 a cause of death was
finally identified for aaron valenti
according to the autopsy reports her
death was due to natural causes
following an acute manic episode
though it didn't specify what exactly
killed her
although aaron's husband claimed that
she had no previous mental or
drug-related issues
aaron did have a thyroid condition that
was later treated with medication
according to business insider it's
possible that she could have died due to
this previous condition that she thought
was already taken care of
but the blood samples taken were quote
not satisfactory for an analysis
furthermore an investigation into some
of aaron's last electronic
communications
showed symptoms of a manic episode
according to the san jose medical
examiner's office
they eventually concluded that her death
was due to an undiagnosed psychiatric
disorder bipolar disorder
bipolar disorder is defined as an
illness in which one experiences periods
of extremely high moods and extremely
low moods
you can think of these two periods as
opposite ends of a pole hence the name
bipolar disorder
according to dr po wing a psychiatrist
from stanford university who specializes
in bipolar disorder the condition is
frequently undiagnosed and what often
follows after is a period of depression
and irritability
where suicide attempts are common
in aaron's case
she could have experienced her manic
episode sometime after visiting her
friends in silicon valley
this causes her to call her parents and
frantically talk about life being a
thought experiment or the matrix
her company was interested in that kind
of technology after all
following that conversation she rushes
to the airport experiences a wave of
depression parks her vehicle in a san
jose neighborhood and dies shortly
thereafter
even so
if aaron had committed suicide the
method by which she did so is still
unclear
however it's not entirely unlikely
a study conducted at the university of
california san francisco surveyed 242
entrepreneurs
and found that 49 of them reported
having at least one mental health
condition
when compared to a small sample of 93
non-entrepreneurs they were noticeably
more likely to report having some type
of mental health condition
the entrepreneurs were then asked to
specify on their condition
30 reported having depression
29 reported having adhd
12 reported having substance abuse
11 were reported having bipolar disorder
and 27 percent reported having anxiety
in comparison
seven percent of the u.s population have
identified themselves as depressed
according to the national institute of
mental health
all of this would seem to suggest a link
between having mental health disorders
and entrepreneurship
and this isn't too surprising
take aaron swords for example he was an
entrepreneur and internet activist who
was mostly known as the co-founder of
reddit
he wrote about his own struggles with
depression on his online blog and after
being arrested he committed suicide
there are dozens of examples and
articles written on the subject
and perhaps aaron could have been
affected by this as well
however because aaron's body was found a
few days after she died the autopsy
report admitted that their findings were
inconclusive
furthermore her family just doesn't
believe that she was the type of person
to kill herself
following her death
aaron's family started the aaron valente
women in entrepreneurship scholarship
with the goal of raising a hundred
thousand dollars for aspiring female
entrepreneurs at the university of utah
she always believed that more women
should pursue in entrepreneurship
and this scholarship was created to
honor that dream
whatever happened to aaron valenti will
remain a mystery
as our mother agnes remarks
we may never find an answer
[Music]
you